# ACL 2020 相关论文速览

## **情感和情绪**

1. **A Comprehensive Analysis of Preprocessing for Word Representation Learning in Affective Tasks**

   Nastaran Babanejad, Ameeta Agrawal, Aijun An and Manos Papagelis

   关注点：What is unique in word representation for affective tasks?

2. **CH-SIMS: A Chinese Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Dataset with Fine-grained Annotation of Modality**

   Wenmeng Yu, Hua Xu, Fanyang Meng, Yilin Zhu, Yixiao Ma, Jiele Wu, Jiyun Zou and Kaicheng Yang

   关注点：What is the source?  How fine? How to annotate data of multiple modality?

3. **ECPE-2D: Emotion-Cause Pair Extraction based on Joint Two-Dimensional Representation, Interaction and Prediction**

   Zixiang Ding, Rui Xia and Jianfei Yu

   关注点：Waht is **Emotion-Cause Pair Extraction? What are the two dims?**

4. **Effective Inter-Clause Modeling for End-to-End Emotion-Cause Pair Extraction**

   Penghui Wei, Jiahao Zhao and Wenji Mao

   关注点：How to model inter-clause? Why work?

5. **Transition-based Directed Graph Construction for Emotion-Cause Pair Extraction**

   Chuang Fan, Chaofa Yuan, Jiachen Du, Lin Gui, Min Yang and Ruifeng Xu

6. **Adversarial and Domain-Aware BERT for Cross-Domain Sentiment Analysis**

   Chunning Du, Haifeng Sun, Jingyu Wang, Qi Qi and Jianxin Liao

   关注点：What is the domain here?

7. **GoEmotions: A Dataset of Fine-Grained Emotions**

   Dorottya Demszky, Dana Movshovitz-Attias, Jeongwoo Ko, Alan Cowen, Gaurav Nemade and Sujith Ravi

   关注点：What is fine-grained emotions?

8. **Joint Modelling of Emotion and Abusive Language Detection**

   Santhosh Rajamanickam, Pushkar Mishra, Helen Yannakoudakis and Ekaterina Shutova

   关注点：Relationship between emotion and abusive language

9. **KinGDOM: Knowledge-Guided DOMain adaptation for sentiment analysis**

   Deepanway Ghosal, Devamanyu Hazarika, Abhinaba Roy, Navonil Majumder, Rada Mihalcea and Soujanya Poria

   关注点：format of knowledge and guidance mechanism

10. **SKEP: Sentiment Knowledge Enhanced Pre-training for Sentiment Analysis**

    Hao Tian, Can Gao, Xinyan Xiao, Hao Liu, Bolei He, Hua Wu, Haifeng Wang and Feng Wu

## **虚假信息验证**

1. **DTCA: Decision Tree-based Co-Attention Networks for Explainable Claim Verification**

   Lianwei Wu, Yuan Rao, Yongqiang Zhao, Hao Liang and Ambreen Nazir

   关注点：Why decision tree? How to represent it?

2. **Estimating predictive uncertainty for rumour verification models**

   Elena Kochkina and Maria Liakata

   关注点：what id uncertainty in rumor verification?

3. **GCAN: Graph-aware Co-Attention Networks for Explainable Fake News Detection on Social Media**

   Yi-Ju Lu and Cheng-Te Li

   关注点：I’ve glanced at it. It’s a boring extension of dEFEND… Hope there’s sth to learn in its details.

## **事实核查**

1. **DeSePtion: Dual Sequence Prediction and Adversarial Examples for Improved Fact-Checking**

   Christopher Hidey, Tuhin Chakrabarty, Tariq Alhindi, Siddharth Varia, Kriste Krstovski, Mona Diab and Smaranda Muresan

   关注点：what is dual ? claim and evidence? How to generate adversarial examples?

2. **Fine-grained Fact Verification with Kernel Graph Attention Network**

   Zhenghao Liu, Chenyan Xiong, Maosong Sun and Zhiyuan Liu

   关注点：Why Kernel? How to be find-grained?

3. **Generating Fact Checking Explanations**

   Pepa Atanasova, Jakob Grue Simonsen, Christina Lioma and Isabelle Augenstein

   关注点：For me, this is a very good direction of fact-check towards human-friendly application.

4. **LogicalFactChecker: Leveraging Logical Operations for Fact Checking with Graph Module Network**

   Wanjun Zhong, Duyu Tang, Zhangyin Feng, Nan Duan, Ming Zhou, Ming Gong, Linjun Shou, Daxin Jiang, Jiahai Wang and Jian Yin

   关注点：How to use logical operations? What is module?

5. **Reasoning Over Semantic-Level Graph for Fact Checking**

   Wanjun Zhong, Jingjing Xu, Duyu Tang, Zenan Xu, Nan Duan, Ming Zhou, Jiahai Wang and Jian Yin

6.  **That is a Known Lie: Detecting Previously Fact-Checked Claims**

   Shaden Shaar, Nikolay Babulkov, Giovanni Da San Martino and Preslav Nakov

## **神经语言推理**

1. **Adversarial NLI: A New Benchmark for Natural Language Understanding**

   Yixin Nie, Adina Williams, Emily Dinan, Mohit Bansal, Jason Weston and Douwe Kiela

2. **Are Natural Language Inference Models IMPPRESsive? Learning IMPlicature and PRESupposition**

   Paloma Jeretic, Alex Warstadt, Suvrat Bhooshan and Adina Williams

   关注点：What do the capital letters mean...

## **讽刺**

1. **iSarcasm: A Dataset of Intended Sarcasm**

   Silviu Oprea and Walid Magdy

   关注点：How to know if it is said intentionally?

2. **R^3: Reverse, Retrieve, and Rank for Sarcasm Generation with Commonsense Knowledge**

   Tuhin Chakrabarty, Debanjan Ghosh, Smaranda Muresan and Nanyun Peng

   关注点：What commonsense? How to model sarcasm text?

3. **Reasoning with Multimodal Sarcastic Tweets via Modeling Cross-Modality Contrast and Semantic Association**

   Nan Xu, Zhixiong Zeng and Wenji Mao

4. **Sentiment and Emotion help Sarcasm? A Multi-task Learning Framework for Multi-Modal Sarcasm, Sentiment and Emotion Analysis**

   Dushyant Singh Chauhan, Dhanush S R, Asif Ekbal and Pushpak Bhattacharyya

5. **Code-switching patterns can be an effective route to improve performance of downstream NLP applications: A case study of humour, sarcasm and hate speech detection**

   Srijan Bansal, Vishal Garimella, Ayush Suhane, Jasabanta Patro and Animesh Mukherjee

## **多模态计算**

1. **A Recipe for Creating Multimodal Aligned Datasets for Sequential Tasks**

   Angela Lin, Sudha Rao, Asli Celikyilmaz, Elnaz Nouri, Chris Brockett, Debadeepta Dey and Bill Dolan

   关注点：What is aligned?

2. **Cross-media Structured Common Space for Multimedia Event Extraction**

   Manling Li, Alireza Zareian, Qi Zeng, Spencer Whitehead, Di Lu, Heng Ji and Shih-Fu Chang

   关注点：What are the events? How to build the structured space?

## **机器阅读理解**

1. **A Self-Training Method for Machine Reading Comprehension with Soft Evidence Extraction**

   Yilin Niu, Fangkai Jiao, Mantong Zhou, Ting Yao, Jingfang Xu and Minlie Huang

   关注点：How to be soft?

2. **A Unified MRC Framework for Named Entity Recognition**

   Xiaoya Li, Jingrong Feng, Yuxian Meng, Qinghong Han, Fei Wu and Jiwei Li

   关注点：How to generate questions?

3. **Document Modeling with Graph Attention Networks for Multi-grained Machine Reading Comprehension**

   Bo Zheng, Haoyang Wen, Yaobo Liang, Nan Duan, Wanxiang Che, Daxin Jiang, Ming Zhou and Ting Liu

   关注点：What does multi-grained stands for? How to transfer a document to a graph?

4. **Enhancing Answer Boundary Detection for Multilingual Machine Reading Comprehension**

   Fei Yuan, Linjun Shou, Xuanyu Bai, Ming Gong, Yaobo Liang, Nan Duan, Yan Fu and Daxin Jiang

   关注点: It’s from Daxin Jiang

5. **How to Ask Good Questions? Try to Leverage Paraphrases**

   Xin Jia, Wenjie Zhou, Xu Sun and Yunfang Wu

   关注点：Paraphrases?

6. **STARC: Structured Annotations for Reading Comprehension**

   Yevgeni Berzak, Jonathan Malmaud and Roger Levy

   关注点：结构化标注什么样

## **观点、立场和争论**

1. **Agreement Prediction of Arguments in Cyber Argumentation for Detecting Stance Polarity and Intensity**

   Joseph Sirrianni, Xiaoqing Liu and Douglas Adams

   关注点：The relationship between Agreement and Polarity/Intensity.

2. **Efficient Pairwise Annotation of Argument Quality**

   Lukas Gienapp, Benno Stein, Matthias Hagen and Martin Potthast

   关注点：How to get argument quality and what can it be used for downstream tasks.

3. **Enhancing Cross-target Stance Detection with Transferable Semantic-Emotion Knowledge**

   Bowen Zhang, Min Yang, Xutao Li, Yunming Ye, Xiaofei Xu and Kuai Dai

   关注点：What is semantic-emotion knowledge? What targets?

4. **From Arguments to Key Points: Towards Automatic Argument Summarization**

   Roy Bar-Haim, Lilach Eden, Roni Friedman, Yoav Kantor, Dan Lahav and Noam Slonim

   关注点：What is the format of key points?

5. **Multi-Sentence Argument Linking**

   Seth Ebner, Patrick Xia, Ryan Culkin, Kyle Rawlins and Benjamin Van Durme

   关注点：The motivation, the environment, and the data.

6. **Out of the Echo Chamber: Detecting Countering Debate Speeches**

   Matan Orbach, Yonatan Bilu, Assaf Toledo, Dan Lahav, Michal Jacovi, Ranit Aharonov and Noam Slonim

   关注点：What are Countering Debate Speeches?

7. **SpanMlt: A Span-based Multi-Task Learning Framework for Pair-wise Aspect and Opinion Terms Extraction**

   He Zhao, Longtao Huang, Rong Zhang, Quan Lu and Hui Xue

   关注点：Formulation of this opinions.

8. **Synchronous Double-channel Recurrent Network for Aspect-Opinion Pair Extraction**

   Shaowei Chen, Jie Liu, Yu Wang, Wenzheng Zhang and Ziming Chi

   关注点： As the above one.

9. **Syntax-Aware Opinion Role Labeling with Dependency Graph Convolutional Networks**

   Bo Zhang, Yue Zhang, Rui Wang, Zhenghua Li and Min Zhang

   关注点：the def of Opinion Role Labeling.

10. **Target Inference in Argument Conclusion Generation**

    Milad Alshomary, Shahbaz Syed, Martin Potthast and Henning Wachsmuth

    关注点：How to get the conclusion.

11. **Unsupervised Opinion Summarization as Copycat-Review Generation**

    Arthur Bražinskas, Mirella Lapata and Ivan Titov

12. **Unsupervised Opinion Summarization with Noising and Denoising**

    Reinald Kim Amplayo and Mirella Lapata

13. **A Two-Step Approach for Implicit Event Argument Detection**

    Zhisong Zhang, Xiang Kong, Zhengzhong Liu, Xuezhe Ma and Eduard Hovy

## **事件挖掘**

1. **Discourse as a Function of Event: Profiling Discourse Structure in News Articles around the Main Event**

   Prafulla Kumar Choubey, Aaron Lee, Ruihong Huang and Lu Wang

   关注点：How to profile the discourse structure.

2. **Improving Event Detection via Open-domain Trigger Knowledge**

   Meihan Tong, Bin Xu, Shuai Wang, Yixin Cao, Lei Hou, Juanzi Li and Jun Xie

   关注点：format of knowledge and characteristics of a trigger

3. **Machine Reading of Historical Events**

   Or Honovich, Lucas Torroba Hennigen, Omri Abend and Shay B. Cohen

   关注点：What problem to solve? What is the output?

4. **Will-They-Won’t-They: A Very Large Dataset for Stance Detection on Twitter**

   Costanza Conforti, Jakob Berndt, Mohammad Taher Pilehvar, Chryssi Giannitsarou, Flavio Toxvaerd and Nigel Collier

## **文本生成**

1. **Distilling Knowledge Learned in BERT for Text Generation**

   Yen-Chun Chen, Zhe Gan, Yu Cheng, Jingzhou Liu and Jingjing Liu

   关注点：How to represent the knowledge from BERT embeddings.

2. **Evidence-Aware Inferential Text Generation with Vector Quantised Variational AutoEncoder**

   Daya Guo, Duyu Tang, Nan Duan, Jian Yin, Daxin Jiang and Ming Zhou

   关注点：What is vector quantised VAE?

3. **Expertise Style Transfer: A New Task Towards Better Communication between Experts and Laymen**

   Yixin Cao, Ruihao Shui, Liangming Pan, Min-Yen Kan, Zhiyuan Liu and Tat-Seng Chua

   关注点：Looks like a kind of text style transfer.

4. **Fact-based Text Editing**

   Hayate Iso, Chao Qiao and Hang Li

   关注点：What is text editing? And what does fact mean here?

5. **Generating Counter Narratives against Online Hate Speech: Data and Strategies**

   Serra Sinem Tekiroğlu, Yi-Ling Chung and Marco Guerini

   关注点：How to generate Counter Narratives?

6. **Hooks in the Headline: Learning to Generate Headlines with Controlled Styles**

   Di Jin, Zhijing Jin, Joey Tianyi Zhou, Lisa Orii and Peter Szolovits

   关注点：How to represent and control style.

7. **Rigid Formats Controlled Text Generation**

   Piji Li, Haisong Zhang, Xiaojiang Liu and Shuming Shi

## **预训练模型**

1. **Finding Universal Grammatical Relations in Multilingual BERT**

   Ethan A. Chi, John Hewitt and Christopher D. Manning

   关注点：what are universal grammatical relations?

2. **How does BERT’s attention change when you fine-tune? An analysis methodology and a case study in negation scope**

   Yiyun Zhao and Steven Bethard

   关注点：The question in the title.

3. **Self-Attention is Not Only a Weight: Analyzing BERT with Vector Norms**

   Goro Kobayashi, Tatsuki Kuribayashi, Sho Yokoi and Kentaro Inui

## **人的因素**

1. **From Zero to Hero: Human-In-The-Loop Entity Linking in Low Resource Domains**

   Jan-Christoph Klie, Richard Eckart de Castilho and Iryna Gurevych

   关注点：Huamn-In-The-Loop implementation

2. **Human Attention Maps for Text Classification: Do Humans and Neural Networks Focus on the Same Words?**

   Cansu Sen, Thomas Hartvigsen, Biao Yin, Xiangnan Kong and Elke Rundensteiner

   关注点：Exactly the title.

## **其它**

1. **（Meaning问题）(Re)construing Meaning in NLP**

   Sean Trott, Tiago Timponi Torrent, Nancy Chang and Nathan Schneider

2. **（分布式语义的目标）What are the Goals of Distributional Semantics?**

   Guy Emerson

3. **（学习欺骗）Learning to Deceive with Attention-Based Explanations**

   Danish Pruthi, Mansi Gupta, Bhuwan Dhingra, Graham Neubig and Zachary C. Lipton

   关注点：Is this to generate deceptive text?

4. **Social Bias Frames: Reasoning about Social and Power Implications of Language**

   Maarten Sap, Saadia Gabriel, Lianhui Qin, Dan Jurafsky, Noah A. Smith and Yejin Choi

5. **（未知意图识别）Unknown Intent Detection Using Gaussian Mixture Model with an Application to Zero-shot Intent Classification**

   Guangfeng Yan, Lu Fan, Qimai Li, Han Liu, Xiaotong Zhang, Xiao-Ming Wu and Albert Y.S. Lam

6. **（虚假信息遏制）Demographics Should Not Be the Reason of Toxicity: Mitigating Discrimination in Text Classifications with Instance Weighting**

   Guanhua Zhang, Bing Bai, Junqi Zhang, Kun Bai, Conghui Zhu and Tiejun Zhao

   关注点：How were demographics and toxicity connected before? And why is not sufficient?

7. **（新闻媒体侧写）What Was Written vs. Who Read It: News Media Profiling Using Text Analysis and Social Media Context**

   Ramy Baly, Georgi Karadzhov, Jisun An, Haewoon Kwak, Yoan Dinkov, Ahmed Ali, James Glass and Preslav Nakov

8. **（claim的起源）“Who said it, and Why?” Provenance for Natural Language Claims**

   Yi Zhang, Zachary Ives and Dan Roth

9. **（篇章修辞结构）A Top-down Neural Architecture towards Text-level Parsing of Discourse Rhetorical Structure**

   Longyin Zhang, Yuqing Xing, Fang Kong, Peifeng Li and Guodong Zhou

10. **（社交媒体上的政治模仿）Analyzing Political Parody in Social Media**

    Antonios Maronikolakis, Danae Sánchez Villegas, Daniel Preotiuc-Pietro and Nikolaos Aletras

    关注点：What can be a political parody? And the conclusion.

11. **（不平衡数据Loss）Dice Loss for Data-imbalanced NLP Tasks**

    Xiaoya Li, Xiaofei Sun, Yuxian Meng, Junjun Liang, Fei Wu and Jiwei Li

    关注点：What to do to make dice loss (from CV tasks) work in NLP tasks.

12. **（QA数据集标注）A Methodology for Creating Question Answering Corpora Using Inverse Data Annotation**

    Jan Deriu, Katsiaryna Mlynchyk, Philippe Schläpfer, Alvaro Rodrigo, Dirk von Grünigen, Nicolas Kaiser, Kurt Stockinger, Eneko Agirre and Mark Cieliebak

    关注点：What is Inverse Data Annotation?

13. **（毒性文本检测）Toxicity Detection: Does Context Really Matter?**

    John Pavlopoulos, Jeffrey Sorensen, Lucas Dixon, Nithum Thain and Ion Androutsopoulos

14. **（信息抽取中的全局特征）A Joint Neural Model for Information Extraction with Global Features**

    Ying Lin, Heng Ji, Fei Huang and Lingfei Wu

    关注点：What are the global features?

15. **（可解释）Evaluating Explainable AI: Which Algorithmic Explanations Help Users Predict Model Behavior?**

    Peter Hase and Mohit Bansal

    关注点：Exactly the question in its titile.

16. **（解纠缠）Improving Disentangled Text Representation Learning with Information-Theoretic Guidance**

    Pengyu Cheng, Martin Renqiang Min, Dinghan Shen, Christopher Malon, Yizhe Zhang, Yitong Li and Lawrence Carin

    关注点：信息论与解纠缠的关系